Sure that you could get water as it's it's hard.
People will tell you it's Drilling wells and
getting lots of water wells around the stonewall
area is hard. It's a hard thing to do. Now you take
over here at the boyhood home, that well in the
front yard is hand dug and I think it's about, well I
don't think I know. When you speak of hand dug,
define that for me. Well, you just take, you You
take a pick and a shovel and you dig a well by hand.
Just the straight open pit hole? Yes, but you have
to have it big enough that you can put a scaffold at
the top and pull your dirt up and out. So they're
usually about six feet across. Okay. Or sometimes
they may vary in size. And they will be more or less
shaped like a jug when they get down. And they would
dig underground cisterns in the same way. And we
always had an underground cistern because the
water stays so nice and cool in the summertime. And
we lots of times wouldn't have water. She depended
on the windmill. right and if you know anything
about the hill country you find more windmills and
you do anything else and if you have an underground
system you have cool fresh water all the time yeah
and but you always have a good filter now that's the
main thing to having good underground system
water and your filter will be made out at the side,
and you will put a layer of fine sand, a layer of
charcoal, a layer of sand, a layer of charcoal, a
layer of sand, and it's screened off, and the water
runs through this, and then it drains into your
cistern.
You don't let the first part of the water run into
the filter either. It has to be filtered for
purity. You cut the water off, let it rain enough to
wash all the dirt and stuff off of your shingles,
then you turn it on and let it run through the
filter. A shower won't do you any good because it's
not clean water. My mother would never make Lysol.
out of well water. She always used cistern water. I
didn't know that. But still, she made her lye out of
ashes. And the reason for that is, if she used the
well water, the chemicals from the ash was usually
made from live oil. And that will not work with with
minerals in the water. So you have a chemical
backup reaction that it just doesn't do. And she
would use rainwater to make her lye soap. That's
something else. And she'd never make lye soap in
the decrease of the moon. She'd make it in the full
of the moon. When the moon begins to fail is when she
would make her soap. She'd never dig her potatoes
in the and the decrease of the moon because they're
swimming. Is that so? So that's the way she did it.
That's the way she killed her meat. It's
everything. Everything was done by the moon. By
the moon. This is an important tradition. Well,
that's been handed down. From generation to
generation. To generation. And, of course, we had
no calendars. I mean, we had calendars. That's
true. Well, we had no weather forecast or things
like that. But you listen, and I don't care what
they say. The first time you hear a Katie did holler
in the summertime, you just mark it. Six weeks from
that day, it's going to be cold. May not freeze, may
not frost, but it'll dead sure be cool. You'll have
a cool spell. Okay, six weeks from the first day you
hear the Katie dead, or as we call them, right? Yes,
sir. Holler, you're going to find out about it.
Okay. And they laugh at you about those things.
Well, I know that's to be true. And if that sun sets
behind a bank on Sunday night, you'll have some
kind of precipitation within three days. I see. If
your senesa blooms and in full bloom, You'll have
some kind of precipitation within five. The
ceniza, that's the... That's purple sage. The
purple sage, right. The Mexican name is ceniza.
Ceniza, okay. You know, you've heard me say that up
at the old ranch a lot of times, and they'd come by
and say, well, is it going to rain today? I said,
well, shoot, you ought to know. Look at the darn
spiderwebs out there on the ground. That tells you
that it's not going to rain. When the spider webs
are on the ground. That's a sure sign of good old rye
weather, sister. Is that so? Y'all tell me some
more. These are good ones. Those are just things
that I just happened to think about. Well, of
course. This is good. They'll ask you about
fishing. When do they'll say that you can't catch
them? Bass, if they're spawning or if they're
around their nest and whatnot. And when do you go
fishing for bass? I can tell you one thing. When
wild plum begins to bloom and it's in full bloom,
you can bet your bottom dollar that your bass are
going to be out. They're going to be out away from
their nest and they'll be ready to fight you for
bait. And then you can have very good. And I got that
from... Ruth Perry, so I know that's bound to be
right. That's bound to be right. That's bound to be
right. That's one of his main sayings. Well, tell
me a little bit more about the weather, Reba. How
can you tell the weather changes? Well, the best
thing, one of the best things I've always noticed
is your cattle or your goats or your sheep. You take
an old goat, and if you're going to have an orther,
You just get out and look at them and see what
they're doing. Every one of them will hit a beeline
right straight to the north. That wind blows that
hair right back on their bodies. And they'll hit,
there'll be a bluff or there'll be a shed or
there'll be something. And they'll go right
straight to it. To the north. They'll face the
north because that blows their fur back against
their body rather than away where it gets to their
skin. And you watch a cattle lie down early in the
morning. If they point that head towards the
north, you know what's coming. There's going to be
cold weather that one of the fronts will be coming
through. One of the fronts. You just... You watch
your animals, and you'll see. You watch an old hog,
and they'll go out and gather up sticks and things
and build a nest, or we call it a nest, but build a bed
in the corner of the pen. When you see them doing
that, you know what's going to happen. What? It's
going to be colder than Hades. Really? And that's
just as regular as clockwork. Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
It's, well... As I say, I was brought up to watch
those things and look at those things. As she says,
you did not have a calendar, and you didn't have the
6 o'clock news. No, we had no 6 o'clock news. You
didn't know how you were supposed to behave other
than the way that the traditions had been taught.
That's right. And do you know, I can remember just
as well if it was yesterday, Hades Comet 1910. Do
you really? I certainly do. You were a little
thing. I was a little thing, and what happened, we
were having a country dance, and... Used to,
they'd put you off in a room and you'd go to sleep.
And I don't know, I guess I just always had a busy
body and had to get in trouble with everything I
did. I went to the window and I was looking out.
outside and I saw this thing coming with a tail of
fire like nothing and I screamed bloody murder and
my mother came and I pointed to the window I was
scared so I couldn't say a word and she looked out
well I'll tell you that broke the damself and
everybody went to watch everybody went to watch
Haley's Comet of course it didn't last no time but
it shot across that I've never seen anything
before nor since. But I remember that. I've read
about it since. Yeah. Because it's frightening.
My father saw that, too. I remember him. And I have
one other, saw one other comic in my day. And I've
seen the Northern Lights twice, right here in
Texas. Yes, you could do that this year in Texas.
They've said that from the hill country of Texas,
at points you could have seen the Northern Lights.
That was predicted in 1981. So when people say
anything about that, I'll verify that if I could
have come up that night, I would have come up and
watched them. So let's hear your story. I'll tell
you right now, that is the most beautiful sight
that I believe that I've ever looked at in my life.
Now, it does not happen. It's a very rare thing. It
happened one time once before when, let me see, it
was back in the 20s. And we were to go to St. Marcus
to... a district interscholastic meet and it
rained and was cold and bad and it just rained and
rained of course no highways nowhere going and it
took all day to drive down there and we'd have to
stay all night and we were just looking and looking
for every day for it to break off so we knew that we'd
get to go and take all of the contestants down
there. I was to speak and Margaret was to spell.
Lyndon was in debating. And, well, I had
extemporaneous speaking and declamation. I was
in two things. But anyway, we were all to go. And the
night before we would leave the next morning, we
saw the Aurora Borealis. And we thought the world
was coming to an end. No radios to tell us what it
was. We had no idea. Until you heard news. Until we
got our semi-weekly express. Semi-weekly.
Semi-weekly. We didn't have Daily Mail every day
and all that kind of good stuff and found out what it
was. It just scared us to death. But it was
beautiful. But we thought the world was coming to
an end. All those lights just came together up in
the center like they looked like it formed a star or
a rainbow. They go right in the center of the
heavens. Oh, it was the most magnificent thing
that I believe we've ever looked at. Yes, yes, I bet
it was. It was beautiful. Well, they said you could
see it this year if you were in the hill country and
it was clear. And that was about three weeks ago.
Three weeks ago, I think it was. It wasn't as
pretty, wasn't near as good as it was in 1920. No,
I'm sure, because of the lights. I don't know
whether it was because it was the first time I'd
seen it or what, but it was much more vivid. The
atmosphere was more pure at that time, too. Yes,
than it is now. Oh, certainly. It wasn't as vivid.
It was clear enough. You could see it all right, but
it wasn't as vivid as it was then. Uh-huh. Nothing
like it. I was coming from the ranch. Uh-huh.
And... when I saw it this time. You know that's
something unusual that you can live to see two of
them remembered. It is. It is really. Yes, it
really is. But I've lived in the best time that any
American will ever see. I am beginning to feel that
you may be very close to right. I am right. Now, you
wait and see. I won't live to see it, but you won't
have as good a time as you're having now. You won't
have as easy a time. Well, that's the reason I hang
out in this county, because it hadn't... This is my
favorite place to be. You just... Oh, I told you
about having my picture made with President
Carter. Yeah, you'll have to tell me about it.
Anyway, what I was going to say... Talking about, I
remember
the first time I ever went to Austin was to see
Roosevelt, Rough Riders. Yeah, tell me about
that. Because a lot of people don't realize they
did visit Austin. Oh, yes, but they did. And they
came down the avenue, right down the avenue. And
people say, well, now they were stationed in San
Antonio, right? He was trooped up in San Antonio.
It didn't make any difference. He came down the
avenue. And my daddy took us down there. for us to
see Teddy Roosevelt and the Rough Riders and we
went in an old Model T car and it took us all day long
to get there. And we... In what year? Oh, I guess
that... Well, must have been about 19... Must have
been about 1914, 19... Well, I tell you, it was
Pancho Villa... Right, that's why he was staying
at war. And it's when he was called in as a trooper,
and my daddy volunteered as a Texas Ranger to go and
fight in law. I thought I'd never see my daddy
again. And that was then. That was when that was.
And he was the first dignitary that I ever remember
seeing. And what impressed me most of all of course
was the way he rode his horse he sat up on that horse
like he was worth a million dollars yeah and he had a
beautiful horse actually had a beautiful horse
which you would have noticed which i did notice
which my daddy noticed and oh he was he was such a
proud man to he just sat proud and you see Riders and
riders again. Some ride on three-fourths of their
backbone. Some give it a slot like this. Never
erect and never positive. But you could look at him
and tell he was a positive driver. He was a surer.
Well, he just had that appearance. And that's the
impression he made on me as a child, that he was a
leader. Mm-hmm. And I believe it to this day. He's
one of my great admirers. Well, now, that was one of
the first ones. The next one that I met was
President Roosevelt and San Antonio. Now, which
one? You mean? Franklin Delano Roosevelt. And
from every president on up, I have had the pleasure
of meeting him. And, well, I met our friend...
Smiley boy.
Who? Our president. Reagan? Reagan. I met him when
he was governor of California. I met him in
California as governor of California. I had the
pleasure of meeting him. Face to face. It's
president that I met him before. And, you know,
that's something else. Of course. And when Lyndon
was inaugurated president in inauguration,
every governor, of every state or their
representative, lieutenant governor, was
there. And I had the pleasure of shaking hands with
every one of them and telling them who I was. Isn't
that nice? Isn't it? Now, let me tell you right now,
it didn't probably amount to anything to them.
It's just another person. But to me, it meant a lot.
That's of course. It's something that I can tell.
Of course. and say to my children, and when I was
trying so hard to get my education, and I worked for
Ms. Sterry as assistant professor in geography,
carrying suitcases on tours for women, checking
them in their rooms and getting their cases. I went
to every state in the union. On those tours. On
those tours. Yeah. and work my way in doing things
like that, and then having the pleasure of meeting
every government. That's something. It sure is.
That not everybody and just a plain old common
country gal. But you didn't get rich doing it
except in your own heart. That's right. That's
right. I'm one of the richest people when it comes
to things like that that ever was. Well, I tell you,
I want to go back and talk some more about that
childhood because that's where it all started.
You sure did. So let's do that because I'm going to
do a full 90, two 90 minute tapes now on childhood
alone. I want you to tell me how you got in trouble
with your grandfather some more. Well,
Grandfather's going to know one day if I wanted
anything from Stonewall. And I said, yes, I sure
do. I want a pair of little scissors. He said,
honey, what do you want scissors for? Granny has a
pair you can use. Grandmother says, she's not
taking my scissors and cutting paper with them.
It'll ruin them. Well, okay, Grandfather goes and
he buys the scissors for me. And he won't know what I
want. I wanted to cut paper dolls out of a catalog.
And, you know, we didn't have catalogs like we do
now. But it was a catalog, and they'd have some
colored pictures in them. And you'd cut them out,
and that's what your paper dolls were. Well, you
can imagine what my paper dolls looked like. He cut
them out three and four years old. But anyway, I had
paper dolls. Don't think I didn't. Of course, at
night, my mother would take time enough to
straighten up some of them and fix them for me so
that I'd have some to play with. And Grandfather
had the most beautiful white beard. And his hair
was just snow white and curly. He had a steel gray
eye that, oh, it was beautiful. My father had the
same hazel eye that my grandfather had.
Grandfather was a handsome man. I don't care what
anybody said about children. Because their
parents, they love them so that they are pretty.
Well, grandfather was a handsome man. He was
straight as an arrow. He rode a horse like he meant
to, like he was a proud man, and he was a proud man.
And when he put his hat on, he didn't throw it on the
back of his head and dip the front down, dip the tail
down the back. He set that hat on, and he didn't cock
it to one side or this way, but it was straight, and
those sides were just rolled a very little bit. And
he looked like a million dollars. He always had a
good pair of boots and a good hat. And he'd always
say that good hat and good boots got you where you
needed to go. And that was true. But anyway, he
brought my little scissors back. And he was laying
down on his couch asleep. And I'd cut paper dolls
till I was tired. And I got up and I looked. And I
thought, well, I believe I'll go there. trim
Grandpa's beard. And I went over and I just got one
whack right about there. And he woke up. And I had
already cut one whack. Well, he had the heavy trim
the rest of the way. And he talked to me. Oh, I'll
never forget that talking to. I wished he'd have
spanked me a jillion times, but he didn't. Grandma
said I needed a spanking, but he just talked to me.
And he says, do you think this is pretty now? Oh, and
I thought that's the oldest looking man I ever saw
with that big old gap in that beard. And if you'll
look at the enlarged picture on the wall over at the
boyhood home, you'll still see the gap in the deer.
Where I put it in there as a child. And it just never,
well it did, it grew out as time went on. But when
Grandpap had that made, it hadn't grown out. And
that was one thing that I remember above
everything else. I'd just run the looks of my papa.
And he used to hitch old mold up to the buggy and I'd
say, make her go fast, let's beat our daddy to
church. And you and your grandfather. And my
grandfather. And we'd whip her out. we beat that in
the church. Was that the Christadelphian church?
Yeah, down the river, down the tabernacle, down by
the hodge, the old hodge place, and we'd drive old
Maude and that buggy down there, and it was all day
preaching and dinner on the ground. Right. And let
me tell you, you went in that tabernacle, you sat
down, that little church house, In the summertime
it's a tabernacle and in the wintertime it's a
church house. You sat down on those benches and you
didn't squirm around and you didn't get up and run
around and you didn't get up and run and get a drink
of water. You sat there till it was over with. And
that was little. Low, low, low. I never did, I
thought those Christians would never get through
preaching sometimes. At that age I bet you did. I
sure did want to go play. So tell me, who taught you
how to rope? Well, really and truly, my daddy did.
Your daddy did. But I had a good trainer was Sid Hyde
in the brush. And he always helped me with roping.
And I will say one thing.
gave me better instructions on how to rope in the
cedar, in the brush, than my daddy ever did. And let
me tell you, this forefinger is the main thing in
roping, and boy, it guides that rope, it guides
that loop, and if you've got a good, strong
forefinger, you've got a good loop. So they made
you a cowgirl. They made me a cowgirl, and I
appreciate that. It means a lot to me now. I'm sure
it does. Being able to do and able to throw a loop in
the brush, able to throw one outside. That's a
period of history in a unique concept of women.
Now, we have rodeos, which I know you participated
in later. But my interest is the fact, again, I come
back to the idea that living on a ranch in Texas.
That's right. you had the responsibility of
knowing your cattle, and you sure did, and that's
something I want to talk to you about now. You had to
know your cattle, you had to know what to do, how to
row, How to round them up. Tell me about that. There
are a few people living today that lived through
the time that we had compulsory dipping in Texas.
And I'm one of those that did. And the reason for
that, I guess, is this is a thinly populated
county, as you well know. Yes, it is. It's a very,
very thinly populated county. You didn't hire
people in those days like they do now. You
couldn't. You didn't have the money to do it with.
Well, they'd always say, well, we'll get those
three Johnson kids. They're just as tough as they
ever come when it comes to riding and roping. They
can help us. They'll know over the pasture. Well,
we would help everybody around. to round up and dip
when it was their time to dip. We didn't have a
dipping vat there replaced either. This was for
the fly. Well, that was for the ticks. For the
ticks. That's right. Fever ticks and plain ticks.
We would drive cattle five, ten miles to dipping
vats and dip them. And we had to know our cattle. We
had to know those that were able to go and those that
couldn't travel. And Lennon was a good place.
always was with us and helped us. And when I said
three, there's always four of us. There's four
Johnson kids and sometimes Truman Fawcett would
help us and he would be down there. And sometimes
the CAMAC girls would be there and help us with
always somebody to help. I'll guarantee you it
wouldn't be just three. And we'd all have saddles
and bridles enough to help. But we went as a team and
worked. And that's the way it was. And you could
look at a cow and say, well, that cow's heavy with
calf. And put her over here. And this cow is a dry
cow. We'll put her in this pasture. And you'd look
at this one and say, well, we'd better start
feeding this one. And this one can make it for a
while longer. You could look at them and tell
whether they could. Well, the cattle look gone
today. What's the matter? Well, they're running
after acorns. They're going after acorns and
they're not eating and drinking and doing, and
they'll do that. And lots of acorns, lots of times,
will give cows scours and creeps. Which are? Well,
the scours are just like a good case of
stomachache. And the creeps is just, it's because
of the nutrition, the lack of the nutrition that
they should get, and the different types of acorns
that they're eating, and the lack of minerals in
their food. in the grass that they get. And so what
does that do to them? You've seen people walk
around that didn't have energy to get along. And
that's what an old cow does. From eating the
acorns. Eating acorns and old sage grass, bunch
grass. And you had to know all this stuff. Sure,
sure. And I can remember before we had our dipping
vats built, the ticks would be so thick on the cow's
udders, as we'd call them bags, udders, better
word to use, up and down. And you'd put those cows in
a pen, and your daddy would give you a piece of bacon
rind, about so long, and you'd rub it up and down the
back in that bacon rind, salty grease, and kill the
ticks. That is right, and that's exactly what we'd
have to do before we had dipping vats. Don't tell me
that I haven't had it from every angle. I know you
have. You have had it from every angle. That's
right, when it comes to ranching. Sure, of course.
Then after we had the tick eradication, and then my
daddy was... had we had made pretty good and was
getting along pretty well and he bought cattle
cows and calves for 125 dollars oh that was before
everything went to pot in the teens there just
wasn't anything tell me about that and tell me
about that particular era of time yeah i want to
know it was Because the cattle days were over. Yes,
they were over. And things went to pot. And the
government came in and bought up and killed the
stock. Oh, my goodness. I think about that, and it
just gives me the heebie-jeebies. Well, I don't
think I know what happened at all. You don't? Well,
there was a law passed that... We had too many
animals and you had to get rid of them and they'd
kill these calves or cows and just put them out
there and the government did. Do you remember what
law that was or what act that was? I can't. I'll look
it up. I can't tell you what it was. Just a crazy
agriculture program that came. An agricultural
program? Yeah. About 19... Well, no, it's about
1900 and, well, heaven's above. Now, I married in
23 and it was before then. Okay. It was right after
the war. Well, in the early 20s. Hmm. Early 20s, I
know that because I married in 1923. And I know that
we took canners and we canned. They put these out
and you'd have to burn them or destroy them. And
we'd find a real young calf, a tender calf, and we'd
skin it and can that meat to have in the winter to
eat. Now that's the way, that's the truth if I ever
told it in my life. And they would give you, maybe
they would allow you one or allow you two. But the
rest of it had to be burned or discarded or done
something with. I'm fascinated. But that's
exactly right. And then people would come along
that were hungry and they would get them and take
them and do something out and nothing was said
about it here because dog eat dog, that's the way it
was. But I do know that I helped Ms. Kamak and we'd
go, and my mother, and we'd go from place to place
and can to help save it so we'd have something to eat
in the winter. And that was not because of disease?
No, no, they were just killed. Yes, sir, because
it's too much. And they were not transporting that
meat anywhere? No, and it's just like plowing up
our cotton. Ah, making sense. Yeah, it's just like
plowing up our wheat. I know what you're talking
about now. That's exactly the way the cattle
industry was, and that's exactly what happened.
And I saw my daddy... Sell those cows that he paid
$125 for a cow and calf. I saw him sell them for
$12.50. And we couldn't, there was no way that we
had any money to go to school on. That was in the 20s.
No way. We were down to nothing. And Daddy got a job
then. Absolutely, we just didn't have it. And he
got a job as tick inspector. And he worked as tick
inspector then for years in South Texas, and they
finally shipped him. to the King Ranch, and he
worked down there. He did. And there's lots of
static. And then, boy, they had a lot of trouble in
McMullen County with people dipping and getting
rid of the fever tick, and he was sent there. That's
another time I didn't think I'd ever see my daddy
come back. But he did. but now that's and again you
didn't have a telephone where you know real quick
you sure didn't and you didn't have any well we just
didn't have it money we couldn't have done it
anyway yeah right i'll tell you talk about chasing
your own rabbits yeah i have You have. I have to eat
to live. And we'd get, and my father and my daddy, I
learned how to shoot a gun by the time I was five
years old, and I'm not kidding anybody. And my
grandmother would give me an old dog, old Trigger,
and she'd say, you and old Trigger go up the holla
now and let's have a squirrel because we won't have
any meat for dinner. Okay. All right? And I'd go up
the holla. and which was a branch right and there
would be plenty of old walnuts and plenty of pecan
trees and things and always be squirrels and i'd go
up to holla and i'd bring back a squirrel for dinner
and she'd make dumplings out of that squirrel and
that's enough to feed all all those because
squirrel dumplings squirrel dumplings and maybe
i'd bring back two I never bring over four, but
while I'm out of time, but I'd never bring back less
than two because two would take that many to feed
us. If I didn't get a squirrel, I'd get a cottontail
rabbit. Now, I've eaten lots of cottontail
rabbits and squirrels, you bet. And your kids this
damn time, I wouldn't eat that. I wouldn't have
that. I'm no way. I've eaten squirrels, though.
Yeah. Yeah. So, but I've eaten lots of squirrels
and cottontail rabbits, baked coon, armadillo,
deer. What was there? I ate what I had, what we had.
Nothing better. Of course. You lived off the land.
Lived off of the land is right. And ate what was
here. And I was taught to handle a gun and what one is
like, a .22. Well, you can look in there at my bed
right now. I've got a gun sitting right at the head
of it. And I don't... Think anything of it? No,
think nothing about it. So you're still part of an
era that engaged in self-protection, I would say,
but not in a violent way. Self-protection. That's
right. You all are for whatever's necessary. And I
enjoy hunting as much as anybody. Yeah, I know you
do. Right. And I like to... Sometimes I look at them
and I just can't pull the trigger. Yeah. See those
big old eyes looking at you? I just can't do it.
Better go to H-E-B. You bet. Any old day in the week.
And then again, they jump in and eat my garden up.
I'm ready to kill them. But then again, I can't.
Speaking of your garden... I know you don't have
one now, but I know you've always had a garden. You
and Owen have a garden all the time. You say I don't
have one now. I've got a row of beans right out there
and a row of radishes and a row of mustard. I spoke
too soon. And a row of onions. They're already up.
They're already up. Okay, you're full of garden
sin. That's right. Okay, you'll have to tell me a
little bit about planting. I want to hear about
that. As I told you, I only plant when the sun's
right. Okay. I plant my cucumbers and plant them
when the sign is in twins, in the arms. Okay, which
is, I'm not familiar with the signs myself. Okay.
Well, it's the twins. The constellation? Mm-hmm.
Uh-huh. And that's the way I do that. And I plant
things above ground
in the... the light of the moon and the thing
growing part of the moon and the things under the
ground and the decrease in the dark of the moon. My
turnips, I will plant. I haven't planted, but I
will. Because it's the moon's... Moon is bright.
That's right. Sure. And maybe because I planted
the moon, but I just don't know. It's because it was
brought up that way. It was the way I was taught. And
that's just the way I do it. Another good sign that
we were talking about a while ago about weather.
Whenever a ear of corn has a heavy shuck on it, you
can bet your bottom dollar we'll have a bad winter.
If they have a light shuck, we'll have a mild
winter.
Pretty well. Are you getting tired? No. How about a
drink of water? left Germany when the compulsory
military came into being enforced and when the
Jews were first
cut down. In other words, they were treated worse
than we ever treated the Negro here in Germany. So
my grandfather had learned the work of being a
cabinet maker. And he had the tools to do with and to
work with and was a very good carpenter.
this all happened he decided and he told his
parents that he believed that he would come to the
new land and start all over so he sailed i i wish i had
remembered we can look this up you know i can do it
well i hope you can because you give me the name i can
find it on your records if i could find out what boat
that he came on i can find that it's on ship lists but
anyway and but i do know this that they came in and
must have landed it close to somewhere on the east
coast near Virginia because grandfather came
across to Tennessee and came down the Mississippi
River in a flat boat, landed at Galveston, and came
on over to Brenham and helped to lay at the age of 12
years of age now, mind you, helped to lay the first
railroad dump from Houston to Brenham with
oxygen. He did that? He certainly did. And that was
in about 18... That was a long time before the Civil
War. Oh, yeah. Because Grandfather went to the
Civil War. And it's bound to have been back
about... 18 and 40, 1850, somewhere back in there.
Because he was only 12 years old. But he was a big
man. Grandfather was a big man. But my goodness
alive, he had that Jew nose. And he was Jewish. Even
to me. But those were very predominant. But
grandfather never told me any of this. But his
mother was a red-headed German. And he often told
me. Grandfather had pretty blue eyes, just gander
blue eyes. And the most beautiful hair that you
ever looked at. Mm-hmm. Now, he was a good-looking
man, and it was not a bread. It was not a brown. It was
a hazel-colored. Oh, he was a good-looking man. My
grandmother's hair was as black as a raven, and
when she died, my gray hair won. Her eyes were black
as bullets. Mm-hmm. But I want to tell you right
now, my grandfather was something else. This
piece of furniture right here he made. That is
beautiful. And that's beautiful. And cost, I
could get a pretty penny for that right there. For
that one, yes. A pretty penny. Yes, you could. And
the bed that he made before he married, I got
because I was the oldest grandchild. And he gave it
to me. Well, I gave it to Mark because he enjoyed it
more. He enjoys art. And the other children are not
so well. Well, they're not. They just don't care so
much about it. But now Mark did. And I gave it to him.
And my grandfather was a twin. And he raised... My
grandmother died with... typhoid fever and there
were four children and my grandfather was a twin
and his sisters a twin was sisters and her name was
Clyde Elizabeth and she married a whitest at lamb
passes And you know that name, and you know on your
tablecloth has Clyde Whitest, which was my
mother's own aunt. And my mother's name was Kitty
Clyde, named for her aunt, Clyde. Right, so it was
really Elizabeth Clyde, and that's what her name
was, Elizabeth Clyde. But Mama changed it to Kitty
Clyde because there was a song put out at that time,
My Sweet Kitty Clyde, and so she changed her name.
But Grandfather raised these children. He moved
to Round Rock. And from Brenham, he came on up to
Round Rock. I didn't know that. The Chapmans from
Round Rock. And what year was that? We're going to
get related if you're not careful. Well, I don't
doubt that a bit in the world, but they came up to
Round Rock. Okay. And long about the time of the
Civil War, because Grandfather lived from there,
and he left Clyde, that was the whitest, who took
care of the other two children, and his father
married again. And I know that they have a lot of
Chapman relatives, but I don't know. Now, there
was one that was Ellick and Betsy and Clyde
Elizabeth and James Henry. Grandfather's name
was James Henry. So you see how that goes, James
Henry. That was definitely German. So
grandfather...